# **Server to Server Messaging**

## Application Purpose
When I joined Fidelity Investment in the summer of 2022 as a Systems Engineering Intern, I was placed on a team responsible for the infrastructure regarding financial event notifications. This team was responsible for building and maintaining a mix of cloud and on-premise infrastructure responsible for monitoring client financials, generating event notifications, and publishing those notifications to partnered financial institutions across multiple different messaging channels.

This infrastructure, dubbed Server to Server or S2S Messaging, was constantly evolving, causing developers to encounter issues when using the notification platform. Unfortunately, to debug these issues with test messages, the intervention of a separate team was required, hampering productivity of both teams in the process.

Therefore I was assigned, alongside two other interns, to develop a full stack application capable of interfacing with the S2S platform. This application needed to handle authentication and authorization of developers, allow for users to create, store, and send test messages across various channels, and finally present analytics on the usage of the S2S platform.

As a systems engineering intern, I was developing features that contributed to all facets of the application, both frontend and backend. Not only did this allow me to get a grasp on the many technologies used within this application, but it also presented me with the unique perspective of developing cleaner code that would allow for clean and seamless integration in the later stages of the project.

## Frontend
The frontend of this application was developed in HTML and Javascript using the AngularJS framework. As I have had previous experience in web application development with React, I was familiar with some high level web application concepts already, however using AngularJS did present some of its own challenges. 

Through the use of my fellow interns and the developers we were working with, we were able to developed a frontend application capable of making the necessary API requests to our backend application. Once users were authenticated, they were presented with a portal that provided insight into the S2S testing suite that we created. This suite hosted a repository of test messages that the users could edit and add to. Once these test messages were created, users could send them through various channels, and monitor the message status as it made its way through the entire S2S infrastructure. If the users wanted to view a high level overview of the S2S system, they could view a page containing S2S analytics. This data was generated and tabulated on the fly, and presented in a variety of tables and charts to the users. The users had the ability to window and filter the data to their liking, allowing for a quick analysis of the S2S operation.

## Backend

The backend of this application was built using a Spring Boot application, running on an on premise Apache Tomcat container. Within this Spring Boot application, we defined a REST API that interfaced with a variety of Oracle Database clusters. We first determined what data was needed for this application, and through communication with the relevant Database Admin, we were able to understand the structure and gain access to the relevant databases. Once we formed the correct SQL queries necessary for the API calls, we were able to populate the REST API with the necessary methods and mapping schemas.

## CI/CD

While developing this application, we were working within a variety of testing environments, dubbed DIT (Development Independent Testing), SIT (Systems Integration Testing), and UAT (User Acceptance Testing). In order to build and deploy our code packages to each of these environments, we used Jenkins and UrbanCode Deploy. To monitor the application health when deployed, we used Splunk to monitor and filter logs generated by the deployed application.

## Development and Project Management

During the entire project lifecycle, my intern team was working heavily within the Agile methodology, using Jira as a project tracker. Every day, we attended a daily scrum to keep track of our current stories and discuss any blockers with our assigned scrum master. During each sprint, we would schedule and participate in sprint planning sessions, where we would generate stories and evaluate story points, and assign them to team members. At the end of each sprint, we would participate in sprint retrospectives, allowing for us to discuss our efficiency during the sprint period.